# Week 12.1 Implement Basic Validation Logic


1. **Week 12.1: Implement Basic Form Validation (FV) Logic**
* Code Along 12.1 - Part 1: Basic FV Logic
    - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C26Qeujjf5Y) - Right click and open in a new tab or window
        - Comments to include
            - `app.js`
                - // Perform validation before proceeding
                - // Performs basic validation on form inputs.
                - // @param {Object} formData - The collected form data.
                - // @returns {boolean} True if validation passes, false otherwise.
                - // Named Arrow Functions - all functions use this standard going forward
                - console.log("Form validation failed. Stopping submission.")
                - // Stop execution if validation fails
                - console.log("Form validation passed. Proceeding with submission.");
                - // Rule 1: Household Members must be at least 1
        - Prompts to check out
            - How important is form validation to learning to code JavaScript?
            - Why do we use getElementById for the form, but inputs inside the form we use querySelector get setup DOM references inside the form?
        - Before you start Part 2
            * **Git Workflow (Save Progress):**
                * Commit your changes with the message: **"FV Logic"**
                
2. Code Along 12.1 - Part 2: Rule 1 HTML attributes and Testing FV
    - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fcL4GvVlPis) - Right click and open in a new tab or window
        - Comments to include
            - Create new file name style-guide.md
            - `app.js`
                - // novalidate
        - Prompts to check out
            - HTML input attributes vs custom form validation
        - Before Submitting Submitting Commit History and attempting the Code Challenge
            * **Git Workflow (Save Progress):**
                * Commit your changes with the message: **"FV Coding, Testing"**

3. Code Challenge
    - Write your attempt for the code challenge for Rule 2. 
        - // Code Challenge Code Rule 2 - Home Square Footage must be positive if it's not an apartment (and it's a house)
        * **Git Workflow (Save Progress):**
                - **my attempt at rule 2.**
        - After you submit your commit history you will see the solution for Rule 2 
        - Your grade for the next assignment will based on the code in this commit. 
            - If you aren't able to get the code fully working, add comments directly in your code explaining exactly what troubleshooting steps you tried. Showing me your debugging process is as important as the final result, and I will take it into consideration when grading.
